[MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: CSS selectors are
mostly used for two things--
styling elements and
grabbing references
to elements using JavaScript.
The syntax for CSS
selectors is powerful, maybe
more powerful than you know.
And using them to
the fullest extent
can simplify your
markup and your code.
For example, when you have a
number of fields in a form,
it is natural to have a
name attribute on them.
Often, I see
developers add classes
so they can reference
each field individually.
This can be simplified using one
of CSS lesser-known selectors--
the attribute selector.
The CSS attribute
selector is used
by putting the desired attribute
name and value in brackets
right after the element.
By doing that, the selector
only matches elements
with a key value pair.
So in our example, we can
use the name attribute
instead of having to put
distinct classes on our form
fields.
And it doesn't end there.
The attribute selector
is also capable of doing
partial matches with
an attribute value.
You can use these others
syntaxes to make or select
your match if the attribute
value contains, starts, or ends
with a given string.
This can be really
handy to select
entire groups of elements
using querySelectorAll.
Quite useful, right?
Well, I thought so.
If only there was
more Micro Tips.
But wait, there are
And you should
watch all of them,
so subscribe to this channel and
watch more videos over there.